You might want to try to develop yourself into the best sailor that you
can be, and when you do that, when you want to try to do that, that
means that you have to take on jobs that aren't usually easy. So it
all began when I joined the join the military. At first I had the
opportunity to take normal jobs, slightly higher jobs, and in their
most advanced field, nuclear technology. So that's what I chose to do.
I didn't take the easy route in that case and for me it worked out
really well. As I became a nuclear technician then lots of jobs start
popping up for you so again you have to decide well do I want to
have an easy life, have a normal nine to five job. Do I want to go
home at the end of the night or should I try this supervisory position
that you hear that they have to stay on the ship later, they have
more responsibly put on them, they're blamed a lot more for things.
So basically you have to make your life worse some people would say,
but I think it's just more responsible. Just like with any job the
more responsibility you take, the more risks you have of getting in
trouble now because you're taking care of this work center your blamed
for that work center if something goes wrong. However if you can
do your good job and have that work center be better because of you.
You tell the people what to do and they have less of incidence of
failure you bring your boss down there and say well this is the way
it used to be but I told this person to do X, this person to do Y and
now this person is better because of that. So now that supervisor
that's in front of you will give you an award for that so the only way
to progress yourself, to become a chief, senior chief, master chief,
is to put yourself in that role to take on those risks of failure
and ultimately reap the rewards.